Server: Market addons and releases (#315)
ynput/ayon-documentation: website/docs/admin_server_market.md

---
id: admin_server_market
title: AYON Market
sidebar_label: AYON Market
description: Downloading addons and releases from the market.
---

:::info

> To access the market, you need to use AYON Cloud or have a local instance connected to Ynput Cloud.

Reviewer: What do you think about extending the note with info about connecting to Ynput Cloud, or maybe just a screenshot about connection? 
![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/63aa5244-fdcb-4737-90f9-01beeb33161c)

Author: Added.

:::

The AYON Market provides the latest official addons and releases, making it easy to enhance your server and pipeline. Access the market through the app menu or by pressing the shortcut `m+m` (double-tap the **m** key).

![AYON Market in the app menu](./assets/server/admin/market/market-menu.png)

## Release Bundles

Release bundles include addons, dependency packages, and launchers tested by Ynput for compatibility. We recommend starting with a release bundle rather than individual addons.

Bundles are tailored for different production tracking setups. You can deselect unnecessary pre-bundled addons before installation.

![AYON Market release bundles](./assets/server/admin/market/market-release-bundles.png)

> After installing a release bundle, a new bundle is automatically created with your selected addons, launcher platforms, and pre-built, compatible dependency packages. We recommend testing the new bundle in a staging environment before using it in production. You can configure this in the Bundle Settings within Studio Settings.

Reviewer: What about using colors for staging and production. 
Personally, It helps me connect this piece of information to bundles and launcher.
```suggestion
After installing a release bundle, a new bundle is automatically created with your selected addons, launcher platforms, and pre-built, compatible dependency packages. We recommend testing the new bundle in a <span style={{color:'#1c2026', backgroundColor:'#ff6446', borderRadius: '7px', padding: '3px'}}>staging</span> environment before using it in <span style={{color:'#1c2026',backgroundColor:'#00d7a1', borderRadius: '7px', padding: '3px'}}>production</span>. You can configure this in the Bundle Settings within Studio Settings.
```

![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/ba9aa391-2ef7-4169-9937-f5c7979d789d)

![AYON Market release bundle install](./assets/server/admin/market/market-release-install.png)

:::info

> The Community Edition always has access to the latest release bundle, while AYON subscribers can access all previous release bundles.

Reviewer: Does `Community Edition` refer to self-hosted AYON?
Does `AYON subscribers` refer to `Ynput Cloud subscribers`? (IDK if local AYON instances support any subscription plans)

```suggestion
Local AYON instances have access to the latest release bundle, while Ynput Cloud subscribers can access all previous release bundles.
```

Reviewer: Could you provide a link for obtaining an AYON subscription? 
like
```
[AYON subscribers](some link)
```

Author: Good idea! I also found a bug with https://ynput.cloud/subscribe/ayon crashing that needed fixing...

![AYON Market release bundle install](./assets/server/admin/market/market-release-install.png)

:::info
The Community Edition always has access to the latest release bundle, while AYON subscribers can access all previous release bundles.
:::

## Market Addons

Addons expand your server's capabilities, offering support for DCCs and new features in the web interface.

You can download and update addons directly from Ynput's servers through the market, eliminating the need for manual installation.

After downloading a new addon version, you must add it to a bundle before using it. This ensures the version can be tested on your server prior to deployment in production.

![AYON Market release bundle install](./assets/server/admin/market/market-downloading-addon.png)

> :::warning
> Installing addons individually is not recommended, as versions may not be compatible and do not include dependency packages or a launcher. [Release bundles](#release-bundles) are safer and more convenient.
> :::

Reviewer: For some reason `warning` are the same as `danger`. 
The real warning called `caution`. 

```suggestion
:::caution
Installing addons individually is not recommended, as versions may not be compatible with your bundle. This could require a new dependency package or launcher. [Release bundles](#release-bundles) are safer and more convenient.
:::
```

Author: Thanks, I didn't know that.
